
1. Title
2. Introduction



Our project revolves around the capture of network traffic packets and their 
analysis. 

So, we used virtual machines, or VMs, for packet capture. After we had the 
captures, we created a dashboard to visualize properties of the packets.

Our goals are to identify trends and outliers, while ethically (legally) 
collecting packets.

3. Background and Motivation

Such analysis is important, as it is vital in providing a better understanding 
of what is happening behind closed doors. Many people what their packets look 
like after it leaving their device.

There is also a lot of information you can determine about a packet, also, 
without looking at its data. A simple example is just looking at the amount of 
network activity to determine the size of a file, or spikes in activity to 
figure out your habits.

- Capturing other people's packets is wiretapping; certain institutions, like 
the college, ban the use of packet captures in any form.
- Packets are the smallest unit of transfer on computer networks, right before 
individual bits. When two computers communicate, they send one packet at a time. 
To capture real packets would require tons of permission.

4. Problem statement

First, we want to know what you can see without reading the packet's content. 
Second, how can one virtualize packet collection, to avoid wiretapping?

Limitations: To be clear, we are not looking at packet content (save to a 
limited extent with broadcasts and checking for cleartext passwords). There is 
also no live user data. Finally, you can only run so many virtual machines on a 
consumer grade laptop, so the quality of the data is limited. 

5. Methodology

We used CMU's GHOSTS program to simulate user activity, as well as some manual 
interaction to stuff in other virtual machines to spice up the network.

We used QEMU for virtualization and associated Linux tools.
We used Python for our analysis pipeline. Key libraries included:

Scapy: For packet capture and analysis
Pandas: For data manipulation and processing
Pyshark: To detect QUIC packets
Dash: To create the web-based dashboard
Plotly: For interactive data visualizations

6. Architecture & Design

The protocol stack functions a lot like a class hirearchy. IP extends ether 
(ethernet, or IP, or whatever hardware protocol is being used), and UDP and TCP 
extend IP. HTTP would be website content (though HTTPS would extend TLS). We are 
simply looking for classes in a class tree.

The Virtual machine archatecture is a bit more complex. You have a few types, 
and they all run on top of QEMU (Quick Emulator, a common Linux VM), which then 
runs on top of the linux kernel. Over here, you have a virtual, fake software 
network adapter, virtual bridge 0, through which all the virtual machines must 
connect. Thus I can connect wireshark to siphon traffic from that interface 
specifically.

The entire VM system is controlled with libvirt management tools such as 
virt-manager or virsh.

7. 

We noticed that there is a singificnat amount of traffic that uses insecure 
encryption protocols, oudated version with known vulnerabilities. There is also 
a certain number of passwords detected in cleartext packets.

Some websites use insecure protocols because they can't be bothered to upgrade, 
so that could also be it - it could also be Windows. We didn't have the time it 
isolate the cause.

FIXME

8. Challenges and Solutions


We were somewhat stumped as to how to make the virtual machine traffic as 
realistic as possible. Also, we were having trouble configuring a virtual 
network adapter. FIXME

The resolution to these issues turned out to be unremarkable. We used GHOSTS in 
addition to some manual interaction with the virutal machine network. As far as 
the virtual network adapter is concerned, the primary cause of our troubles was 
the firewall (we believe it has something to do with the versions of the system 
management protocols they used), which was resolved by just switching out for a 
more configurable firewall. FIXME

Python Script Challenges:
Understanding network protocols and packet structures
Installing and setting up Python libraries (Scapy, Pandas, Pyshark, Dash, Plotly)
Learning how to use Scapy to read and analyze PCAPNG files
Understanding and working with Pandas DataFrames for data manipulation
Figuring out how to extract relevant information from packet structures
Implementing logic to categorize packets and detect potential security issues
Handling large datasets efficiently given I only have 8GB of RAM
Learning Dash framework basics to create a web application
Debugging errors in both the analysis script and the dashboard code



9. Conclusion

We simulated network traffic in a virtual environment, and analysed the results.

Key takeaways: your network traffic is more vulnerable than you think. 
Encryption doesn't hide everythign.


...

Disable outdated security policies in Windows, use a VPN (not a free one), 
potentially run one of those windows debloating scripts (probably against 
college policy, but hey, pretty much everything is - control freaks, the lot of 
them)

in firefox, set security.tls.version.min to 4 and security.tls.version.max to 4.
However, this will break some websites, since not everyone is using TLSv3. 
Setting security.tls.version.min to 3 might be enough of a compromise.

...

Linus Torvalds, the creator and lead developer of the Linux Kernel, had gripes 
with "hard to install linux distributions".

https://fossbytes.com/linus-torvalds-doesnt-use-ubuntu-linux-debian/
"I’m sorry, you may want to close your ears now, I want a distribution to be 
easy to install, so that I can just get on with my life, which is mostly 
kernel."

